README.md, before:

<img width="1280" height="640" alt="agent-os-og" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f70671a2-66e8-4c80-8998-d4318af55d10" />

## Your system for spec-driven agentic development.

[Agent OS](https://buildermethods.com/agent-os) transforms AI coding agents from confused interns into productive developers. With structured workflows that capture your standards, your stack, and the unique details of your codebase, Agent OS gives your agents the specs they need to ship quality code on the first try—not the fifth.

Use it with:

✅ Claude Code, Cursor, or any other AI coding tool.

✅ New products or established codebases.

✅ Big features, small fixes, or anything in between.

✅ Any language or framework.

---

### Documentation & Installation

Docs, installation, useage, & best practices 👉 [It's all here](https://buildermethods.com/agent-os)

---

### Created by Brian Casel @ Builder Methods

Created by Brian Casel, the creator of [Builder Methods](https://buildermethods.com), where Brian helps professional software developers and teams build with AI.

Get Brian's free resources on building with AI:
- [Builder Briefing newsletter](https://buildermethods.com)
- [YouTube](https://youtube.com/@briancasel)

Commit message:

Update README.md to reflect new branding as CyberArk AI Spec OS, update creator information, and enhance usage details.

README.md, after:

<img width="1280" height="640" alt="cyberark-ai-spec-os" src="assets/cyberark-ai-spec-os.png" />

## Your system for spec-driven agentic development.

**CyberArk AI Spec OS** transforms AI coding agents from confused interns into productive developers. With structured workflows that capture your standards, your stack, and the unique details of your codebase, CyberArk AI Spec OS gives your agents the specs they need to ship quality code on the first try—not the fifth.

Cyberark AI Spec OS is based on multiple framework but the based one is [Agent OS](https://buildermethods.com/agent-os)

Use it with:

✅ Claude Code, Cursor, or any other AI coding tool. (Github Copilot is also in progress)

✅ New products or established codebases.

✅ Big features, small fixes, or anything in between.

✅ Any language or framework.

---

### Documentation & Installation

Docs, installation, useage, & best practices 👉 [It's all here](https://buildermethods.com/agent-os)

---

### Created by Chen Reuven

Created by Chen Reuven, and based on Brian Casel the creator of [Builder Methods](https://buildermethods.com), where Brian helps professional software developers and teams build with AI.
