instructions/core/create-tasks.md, before:

---
description: Create an Agent OS tasks list from an approved feature spec
globs:
alwaysApply: false
version: 1.1
encoding: UTF-8
---

# Spec Creation Rules

## Overview

With the user's approval, proceed to creating a tasks list based on the current feature spec.

<pre_flight_check>
  EXECUTE: @.cyberark-spec-os/instructions/meta/pre-flight.md
</pre_flight_check>

<process_flow>

<step number="1" subagent="file-creator" name="create_tasks">

### Step 1: Create tasks.md

Use the file-creator subagent to create file: tasks.md inside of the current feature's spec folder.

<file_template>
  <header>
    # Spec Tasks
  </header>
</file_template>

<task_structure>
  <major_tasks>
    - count: 1-5
    - format: numbered checklist
    - grouping: by feature or component
  </major_tasks>
  <subtasks>
    - count: up to 8 per major task
    - format: decimal notation (1.1, 1.2)
    - first_subtask: typically write tests
    - last_subtask: verify all tests pass
  </subtasks>
</task_structure>

<task_template>
  ## Tasks

  - [ ] 1. [MAJOR_TASK_DESCRIPTION]
    - [ ] 1.1 Write tests for [COMPONENT]
    - [ ] 1.2 [IMPLEMENTATION_STEP]
    - [ ] 1.3 [IMPLEMENTATION_STEP]
    - [ ] 1.4 Verify all tests pass

  - [ ] 2. [MAJOR_TASK_DESCRIPTION]
    - [ ] 2.1 Write tests for [COMPONENT]
    - [ ] 2.2 [IMPLEMENTATION_STEP]
</task_template>

<ordering_principles>
  - Consider technical dependencies
  - Follow TDD approach
  - Group related functionality
  - Build incrementally
</ordering_principles>

</step>

<step number="2" name="execution_readiness">

### Step 2: Execution Readiness Check

Evaluate readiness to begin implementation by presenting the first task summary and requesting user confirmation to proceed.

<readiness_summary>
  <present_to_user>
    - Spec name and description
    - First task summary from tasks.md
    - Estimated complexity/scope
    - Key deliverables for task 1
  </present_to_user>
</readiness_summary>

<execution_prompt>
  PROMPT: "The spec planning is complete. The first task is:

  **Task 1:** [FIRST_TASK_TITLE]
  [BRIEF_DESCRIPTION_OF_TASK_1_AND_SUBTASKS]

  Would you like me to proceed with implementing Task 1? I will focus only on this first task and its subtasks unless you specify otherwise.

  Type 'yes' to proceed with Task 1, or let me know if you'd like to review or modify the plan first."
</execution_prompt>

<execution_flow>
  IF user_confirms_yes:
    REFERENCE: @.cyberark-spec-os/instructions/core/execute-tasks.md
    FOCUS: Only Task 1 and its subtasks
    CONSTRAINT: Do not proceed to additional tasks without explicit user request
  ELSE:
    WAIT: For user clarification or modifications
</execution_flow>

</step>

</process_flow>

<post_flight_check>
  EXECUTE: @.cyberark-spec-os/instructions/meta/post-flight.md
</post_flight_check>

Commit message:

Add understanding verification section to create-tasks.md to clarify implementation requirements, task structure, and verification areas before proceeding with feature execution.

instructions/core/create-tasks.md, after:

---
description: Create an Agent OS tasks list from an approved feature spec
globs:
alwaysApply: false
version: 1.1
encoding: UTF-8
---

# Spec Creation Rules

## Overview

With the user's approval, proceed to creating a tasks list based on the current feature spec.

<pre_flight_check>
  EXECUTE: @.cyberark-spec-os/instructions/meta/pre-flight.md
</pre_flight_check>

<process_flow>

<step number="1" subagent="file-creator" name="create_tasks">

### Step 1: Create tasks.md

Use the file-creator subagent to create file: tasks.md inside of the current feature's spec folder.

<file_template>
  <header>
    # Spec Tasks
  </header>
</file_template>

<task_structure>
  <major_tasks>
    - count: 1-5
    - format: numbered checklist
    - grouping: by feature or component
  </major_tasks>
  <subtasks>
    - count: up to 8 per major task
    - format: decimal notation (1.1, 1.2)
    - first_subtask: typically write tests
    - last_subtask: verify all tests pass
  </subtasks>
</task_structure>

<task_template>
  ## Tasks

  - [ ] 1. [MAJOR_TASK_DESCRIPTION]
    - [ ] 1.1 Write tests for [COMPONENT]
    - [ ] 1.2 [IMPLEMENTATION_STEP]
    - [ ] 1.3 [IMPLEMENTATION_STEP]
    - [ ] 1.4 Verify all tests pass

  - [ ] 2. [MAJOR_TASK_DESCRIPTION]
    - [ ] 2.1 Write tests for [COMPONENT]
    - [ ] 2.2 [IMPLEMENTATION_STEP]
</task_template>

<ordering_principles>
  - Consider technical dependencies
  - Follow TDD approach
  - Group related functionality
  - Build incrementally
</ordering_principles>

<understanding_verification>
  EXECUTE: Understanding verification protocol from pre-flight.md
  
  CONTEXT: Current feature spec and generated task breakdown
  FOCUS: Implementation approach and task structure
  
  VERIFICATION_AREAS:
    - Spec requirements are fully understood
    - Task breakdown covers all spec deliverables
    - Implementation approach is technically sound
    - Task dependencies and ordering are logical
    - Testing strategy is comprehensive
    - Success criteria for each task are clear
  
  REQUIREMENT: 100% clarity on implementation plan before presenting to user
</understanding_verification>

</step>

<step number="2" name="execution_readiness">

### Step 2: Execution Readiness Check

Evaluate readiness to begin implementation by presenting the first task summary and requesting user confirmation to proceed.

<readiness_summary>
  <present_to_user>
    - Spec name and description
    - First task summary from tasks.md
    - Estimated complexity/scope
    - Key deliverables for task 1
  </present_to_user>
</readiness_summary>

<execution_prompt>
  PROMPT: "The spec planning is complete. The first task is:

  **Task 1:** [FIRST_TASK_TITLE]
  [BRIEF_DESCRIPTION_OF_TASK_1_AND_SUBTASKS]

  Would you like me to proceed with implementing Task 1? I will focus only on this first task and its subtasks unless you specify otherwise.

  Type 'yes' to proceed with Task 1, or let me know if you'd like to review or modify the plan first."
</execution_prompt>

<execution_flow>
  IF user_confirms_yes:
    REFERENCE: @.cyberark-spec-os/instructions/core/execute-tasks.md
    FOCUS: Only Task 1 and its subtasks
    CONSTRAINT: Do not proceed to additional tasks without explicit user request
  ELSE:
    WAIT: For user clarification or modifications
</execution_flow>

</step>

</process_flow>

<post_flight_check>
  EXECUTE: @.cyberark-spec-os/instructions/meta/post-flight.md
</post_flight_check>
