docs-website/docs/installation/overview.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Installation Overview

CyberArk AI Spec OS has a flexible two-part installation system designed to work with both greenfield (new) and brownfield (existing) projects, seamlessly integrating with your current development workflow.

## Installation Architecture

The installation consists of two main components:

### 1. Base Installation (Recommended)
Install CyberArk AI Spec OS centrally on your system. This maintains your standards and instructions that projects will inherit from.

**Location:** `~/.cyberark-spec-os` (or custom location)
**Purpose:** Global standards, instructions, and project templates

### 2. Project Installation 
Install CyberArk AI Spec OS into each project you work on. This provides self-contained setup with project-specific customizations.

**Location:** Your project directory (`.cyberark-spec-os/`)
**Purpose:** Project-specific configurations and specs

## Supported Tools

CyberArk AI Spec OS works seamlessly with:

- **Claude Code** - AI coding assistant
- **Cursor** - AI-powered code editor  
- **Any AI coding tool** (In Development) - Flexible integration

## Project Types

Works with any project setup:

- **Greenfield Projects** - Start fresh with CyberArk AI Spec OS from day one
- **Brownfield Projects** - Integrate into existing codebases without disruption
- **Any Technology Stack** - Language and framework agnostic approach
- **Any Project Size** - From small utilities to large enterprise applications

## What Gets Installed

### Base Installation Includes:
- **Standards files** (tech-stack, code-style, best-practices)
- **Instructions** (plan-product, create-spec, execute-tasks, etc.)
- **Commands** for workflow management
- **Configuration** files and version tracking
- **Language-specific** code style guides

### Project Installation Includes:
- **Product documentation** (mission, roadmap, decisions)
- **Specs** for individual features and enhancements
- **Project-specific** configurations
- **Local overrides** for global standards

## Next Steps

Choose your installation path:

1. **Quick Start**: Follow our [Quick Installation Guide](./quick-start) for the fastest setup
2. **Custom Setup**: Use the [Manual Installation](./manual) for full control
3. **Team Setup**: See [Team Installation](./team-setup) for organization-wide deployment

## Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have:

- Node.js 18.0 or higher
- Git installed and configured
- Your preferred AI coding tool (Claude Code / Cursor)
- Terminal access for running installation scripts

Commit message:

Update documentation and configuration to reflect the rebranding from CyberArk AI Spec OS to CyberArk Agentic Spec Driven Development, including changes in titles, descriptions, and installation guides across multiple files for consistency and clarity.

docs-website/docs/installation/overview.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Installation Overview

CyberArk Agentic Spec Driven Development (CyberArk ASDD) has a flexible two-part installation system designed to work with both greenfield (new) and brownfield (existing) projects, seamlessly integrating with your current development workflow.

## Installation Architecture

The installation consists of two main components:

### 1. Base Installation (Recommended)
Install CyberArk Agentic Spec Driven Development centrally on your system. This maintains your standards and instructions that projects will inherit from.

**Location:** `~/.cyberark-spec-os` (or custom location)
**Purpose:** Global standards, instructions, and project templates

### 2. Project Installation 
Install CyberArk Agentic Spec Driven Development into each project you work on. This provides self-contained setup with project-specific customizations.

**Location:** Your project directory (`.cyberark-spec-os/`)
**Purpose:** Project-specific configurations and specs

## Supported Tools

CyberArk Agentic Spec Driven Development works seamlessly with:

- **Claude Code** - AI coding assistant
- **Cursor** - AI-powered code editor  
- **Any AI coding tool** (In Development) - Flexible integration

## Project Types

Works with any project setup:

- **Greenfield Projects** - Start fresh with CyberArk Agentic Spec Driven Development from day one
- **Brownfield Projects** - Integrate into existing codebases without disruption
- **Any Technology Stack** - Language and framework agnostic approach
- **Any Project Size** - From small utilities to large enterprise applications

## What Gets Installed

### Base Installation Includes:
- **Standards files** (tech-stack, code-style, best-practices)
- **Instructions** (plan-product, create-spec, execute-tasks, etc.)
- **Commands** for workflow management
- **Configuration** files and version tracking
- **Language-specific** code style guides

### Project Installation Includes:
- **Product documentation** (mission, roadmap, decisions)
- **Specs** for individual features and enhancements
- **Project-specific** configurations
- **Local overrides** for global standards

## Next Steps

Choose your installation path:

1. **Quick Start**: Follow our [Quick Installation Guide](./quick-start) for the fastest setup
2. **Custom Setup**: Use the [Manual Installation](./manual) for full control
3. **Team Setup**: See [Team Installation](./team-setup) for organization-wide deployment

## Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have:

- Node.js 18.0 or higher
- Git installed and configured
- Your preferred AI coding tool (Claude Code / Cursor)
- Terminal access for running installation scripts
